Experimental Design Module

Learning objectives:
1. Students will understand and be able to distinguish the different core components of experimental design including: a) sample size, b) hypothesis testing, c) controls, d) effect size, e) interpretation
2. Students will be able to critique real-world examples of experiments and think critically to determine problems or flaws in experiments. 
3. Students will be able to deploy simple experimental design methodology to create and propose experiments designed to ask specific questions. 

https://www.physiology.org/doi/full/10.1152/advan.00033.2006

Scenario:
We need to increase the size of Team Antarctica, and the director of the project has tasked us with developing an experiment to test the response rate of different interested users across different digital advertising platforms. 

Currently, there are two ads that we want to test the effectiveness of: 1) an old previous ad that has been running for about 1 year and a new ad developed by the marketing team to try and boost enrollment in the program. Team Antartica currently advertises on multiple platforms including Facebook, Twitter and are looking to expand to LinkedIn. 

Part 1: Initial design
Your job today is to design an experiment to test out the performance of the two ads on different platforms. We'll be doing this in chunks. 

Design your initial experimental design. Focus on a few main questions:
1. Which ads will you show on different platforms? 
2. What kind of data will you collect? 
3. How much a difference in ad engagement is informative?
4. How long will the ads run?
5. How will you present your findings in the end?

Be ready to present your ideas to the class.

Part 2: Discussion and critique

Groups will present their ideas to the class briefly, using visual aids (the board), if useful. 

We will discuss, as a class, the merits of each design. Ways it could be improved and other points of discussion. 

Topics of discussion will likely involve:
1) Demographics
2) Data collection (clicks versus links, how many signups, location information)?
3) Power analysis... big topic. 
4) Money versus time tradeoffs
5) graphing and statistics
6) controls (tricky here)

Part 3: Revision
Students will spend the rest of the class refining their experimental design, and will present the changes they made at the beginning of the next class. 
